S&P 500 Stock Predictor

Team #61 - Members are William Kaseu and Ryan O’Connell.

Our project is an application where a user simply inputs the name of a stock (in the S&P 500) and we predict the price of that stock over the next 3 years,
 namely December 2020, December 2021 and December 2022. Since each company has different fundamentals (i.e. revenue, costs, etc.), we created a multiple OLS regression where, 
for each stock, we used the stock price in 2018, total revenue growth year-over-year, net income growth year-over-year, EPS, market cap (in billions), debt-to-equity ratio, 
free cash flow growth year-over-year, beta, moving average, stock growth rate year-over-year, and the industry as controls in our regression. We then used the stock price in 2019 
as the independent (outcome) variable. This allowed us to get the linear equation which we could utilize to predict the future stock prices using the weights assigned to the 
different controls. 

All of the dependent variables, aside from Industry, are standard linear regressors.  Industry acts as a dummy dependent variable used to control for industry-specific impacts of the 
Coronavirus. We have a method to heavily discount certain stocks depending on their industry (as that will capture the risks, such as the effects of the coronavirus).

We used data from Bloomberg Terminal to get the stock information of the companies and used regular expressions to separate the data; the underlying variables will be read from three 
separate CSV files, including information on historical stock prices and economic data, and the program will write a fourth file called “StockPredictions.csv” where the outputs of the regression analysis will be written.

William - created the OLS regression using the Apache Math Library, created the StockCharacteristics Class, RegressionAnalysis Class, and Prices Class, along with the respective JUnit Tests for those classes. 

Ryan - collected and cleaned the data from Bloomberg Terminal, created the StockList Class, UserInteraction Class, and Runner Class, along with the respective JUnit Tests for those classes.

We were instructed to include in this file that one of our teammates (Brad Pully) had dropped the course due to the Coronavirus pandemic. 
As a result, we were unable to create the GUI that we had planned to incorporate in our project. 

GitHub Repository Link: https://github.com/UPenn-CIT599/final-project-s-p-stock-price-simulation.git